# Introduction
## Purpose
The goal of this project is to design and conduct analysis of a CubeSat on an extreme low Earth orbit (eLEO) mission. The satellite will be carrying a mass spectrometer to conduct atmospheric observation. Following deployment from the ISS the satellite will enter a 250 - 600 kilometer orbit and maintain this orbit as long as possible. The overall project is composed of three separate MQP teams, each responsible for a different aspect of the satellite design and analysis. This portion of the overall project focuses on the attitude determination and control, orbital determination and control, and command subsystems of the satellite.

## Project Constraints
There are four major constraints on this project: the orbit profile, the primary propulsion system, the scientific payload, and the satellite form factor. As mentioned in the introduction, the satellite must enter and maintain a 250 - 600 kilometer orbit as long as possible. This is to allow the scientific payload, the miniature Ion Neutral Mass Spectrometer (mini-INMS), to conduct atmospheric analysis in low Earth orbit. A Busek electro-spray thruster has already been selected as the primary propulsion system for this mission profile and cannot be changed. It is expected that the satellite adhere to the CubeSat form factor, although the final size of the satellite is flexible.

## CubeSat Background
Cube satellites (CubeSats) are miniature satellites used for space research and technology development. There are a particular class of nano-satellite that was developed by the California Polytechnic State University and Stanford University in 1999 in order to promote the design, manufacture, and testing of satellite technology in low Earth orbit @cubesat. CubeSats are comprised of multiple 10 cm by 10 cm by 10 cm units, referred to as 'U's. Layouts can vary greatly, but the most common form factors are 1U and 3U @cubesat. In recent years, larger CubeSats have been developed to increase available space for mission payloads. Typically, CubeSats are deployed by a launch mechanism attached to the upper stage of a launch vehicle and offer an easy way to deploy CubeSats into Earth orbit.

## Educational and Social Impacts of CubeSats
The continued expansion and development of CubeSat technologies has yielded a variety of positive social, economic, and educational effects. The space industry has been heavily impacted by the surge of CubeSat and related space technology start-ups in the last five years. From 2000 to 2014 space start-ups have received a combined sum of $1.1 billion in venture capital investments @cite. The number has only increased in recent years, with a total investment of $3.9 billion in 2017 alone @cite. These companies provide satellite components, development, or launch and integration services. 

The wide availability of CubeSat components and hardware has significantly reduced the cost and complexity of creating a flight capable system. Many universities and several high schools have launched CubeSats thanks to these advantages @cite. Low development and launch cost also provides an opportunity for cost effective flight testing of new and experimental technologies. In a notable example, the *Mars InSight* mission carried two CubeSats as a secondary payload in order to test new miniaturized deep space communication equipment @insight. 

The expansion and promotion of CubeSats has also garnered interest from students at all levels in the space sector. Space agencies such as NASA and ESA are able to use CubeSats to inspire students to pursue an education and career in STEM fields. 

